Revise the Architecture page (#383)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/getting_started/architecture/_index.en.md

date = 2020-02-19T21:00:30+01:00
weight = 5
+++
<!-- markdownlint-disable line-length -->
Submariner connects multiple Kubernetes clusters in a way that is secure and performant. Submariner flattens the networks between the

> connected clusters, and enables IP reachability between Pods, Services, and HostNetworks. Submariner also provides, via Lighthouse,

Reviewer: @nyechiel HostNetworks can probably be confused to "Host to host connectivity between the clusters". As you know, we support Host to remoteService/Pod connectivity, but not Host to Host connectivity between the clusters.

Author: Ack, removing HostNetworks to keep it simple.

> service discovery capabilities. The service discovery model is built using standard

Reviewer 2: They’re not quite standard yet ;-).

```suggestion
service discovery capabilities. The service discovery model is built using the proposed
```

Submariner has optional components that provide additional functionality:

* [Globalnet Controller](./globalnet/): handles interconnection of clusters with overlapping CIDRs.

The diagram below illustrates the basic architecture of Submariner:

![Submariner Architecture](/images/submariner/architecture.jpg)

### Terminology and Concepts

> * `ClusterSet` - a group of two or more clusters with a high degree of mutual trust that share Services among themselves.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `ClusterSet` - a group of two or more clusters with a high degree of mutual trust that share Services amongst themselves.
```

> * Clusterset - a group of two or more clusters with a high degree of mutual trust that share Services among themselves.
> Within a clusterset, all namespaces with a given name are considered to be the same namespace.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `ClusterSet` - a group of two or more clusters with a high degree of mutual trust that share Services among themselves.
Within a `ClusterSet`, all namespaces with a given name are considered to be the same namespace.
```

or

```suggestion
* `ClusterSet` - a group of two or more clusters with a high degree of mutual trust that share Services among themselves.
Within a cluster set, all namespaces with a given name are considered to be the same namespace.
```

https://submariner.io/for_developers/dev_guide/website/style_guide/#submarinerio-word-list

There are a few other places in this PR that should also use `ClusterSet` or "cluster set" imho.

Author: Thanks @dfarrell07. I remember that we discussed this in the past, but I was looking at the upstream spec again (https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-multicluster/1645-multi-cluster-services-api) and it seems to be using "clusterset" and not "cluster set".

Reviewer 4: Yeah, I saw that too but I think they are just wrong there. It's a draft with a fair number of small errors. Once it's official, I suspect they will follow the main K8s guidance for API objects:

https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-upper-camel-case-for-api-objects

* `ServiceExport` (CRD) - used to specify which Services should be exposed across all clusters in the cluster set. If multiple clusters

> export a Service with the same name and from the same namespace, they will be recognized as a single combined Service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export a Service with the same name and from the same namespace, they will be recognized as a single logical Service.
```

>   * ServiceExports must be explicitly created by the user in each cluster and within the namespece that the underlying Service resides in,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * ServiceExports must be explicitly created by the user in each cluster and within the namespace that the underlying Service resides in,
```

Author: Oops, good catch!

>   * ServiceExports must be explicitly created by the user in each cluster and within the namespace that the underlying Service resides in,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * ServiceExports must be explicitly created by the user in each cluster and within the namespace in which the underlying Service resides,
```

in order to signify that the Service should be visible and discoverable to other clusters in the clusterset. The `ServiceExport` object can
be created manually or via the `subctl export` command.

>   * When a `ServiceExport` is created, this will cause the multi-cluster service to become accessible as

Reviewer 6: Service

>   * When a `ServiceExport` is created, this will cause the multi-cluster Service to become accessible as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * When a Service s exported, it then becomes accessible as
```

>   * When a `ServiceExport` is created, this will cause a domain name of `<service>.<ns>.svc.clusterset.local` for the multi-cluster service
> to become accessible.

Reviewer 2: This isn’t a domain name; perhaps

```suggestion
  * When a `ServiceExport` is created, this will cause the multi-cluster service to become accessible as `<service>.<ns>.svc.clusterset.local`.
```

> * `ServiceImport` (CRD) - representation of a multi-cluster service in each cluster. Created and used internally by Lighthouse and does not

Reviewer 6: Service

> require any user intervention.

Reviewer 6: intervention (at least in German) somehow has a negative connotation, maybe change to "action"?
